====================
CPSUserFolder Design
====================

:Revision: $Id$

.. sectnum::    :depth: 4
.. contents::   :depth: 4


Introduction
============

CPSUserFolder is a user folder designed to work in conjunction
with CPSDirectory (and therefore CPSSchemas). Directories are used
to describe what are the attributes of a user (using a schema) and
where they are stored (depending on the type of directory). This
is also used for roles and groups, so that, for instance, one can
easily add additional properties to groups.

Configuration
=============

When configuring a CPS User Folder, you have to specify a number
of parameters:

- Users directory

  The directory that holds the users. It's recommended that it be
  a directory called 'members', as this name is assumed by CPS in
  several place.

  The ID of this directory's entries will be the user IDs.

- Users directory: login field

  The field of the users directory that is used to find users at
  login time. It may be different that the directory's ID field.

  If it is empty, the directory's ID field will be used.

- Users directory: roles field

  The field of the users directory that holds the roles of the user.

- Users directory: groups field

  The field of the users directory that holds the groups of the
  user.

During authentication, the password of an entry will be checked
using the directory's API to check authenticated entries.
Depending on the directory type, this may be a comparison with an
clear text field, or (in the case of LDAP for instance) a specific
authentication against the directory's backend.

Directories
===========

CPSUserFolder uses heavily the MetaDirectory and StackingDirectory
of CPSDirectory. These directories provide a unified view of
several other directories, and dispatch requests accordingly. They
can also convert attribute names.

The main uses of MetaDirectory in CPSUserFolder are:

- storing some attributes of an entry in one directory (ex: LDAP
  for main corporate user information) and other attributes in
  another directory (example: ZODB for Zope-specific information
  like 'last_login_time').

- renaming fields (example: the 'email' field of the directory
  'members' actually comes from the 'mail' field of the directory
  'members_ldap').

The main use of StackingDirectory in CPSUserFolder is:

- Having some users stored in one directory and others in another
  directory (example: aggregation of two LDAP branches).

- Providing a different view on a directory (example: LDAP, whose
  ID field is the DN, seen as standard directory whose ID field is
  an uid).

Memberdata Tool
===============

In standard CMF, the memberdata tool exists to hold additional
information about users that cannot be stored in the user folder.
With CPSUserFolder, it's no longer necessary as a MetaDirectory
can be used to dispatch some attributes into the standard storage,
and additional attributes (login_time, last_login_time, etc.) to
another storage.


.. Emacs
.. Local Variables:
.. mode: rst
.. End:
.. Vim
.. vim: set filetype=rst:

